Lift14 workshop submission form

NB: Lift workshops typically last between 1.5 to 3 hours.
* Required

Name:
Thomas Levine

Working at:
CSV Soundsystem (http://csvsoundsystem.com)

Email:
.@thomaslevine.com

Tell us about yourself:

  Playing with computers since he was young, Tom eventually developed back and wrist pain, so he started studying ergonomics and conducting quantitative ergonomics research. Then he realized that his back and wrists hurt less and that he'd accidentally become a data scientist. Tom likes getting people to work less and think more. Recent endeavours include studying how open data are published and consumed (http://thomaslevine.com/open-data), teaching data science (http://zipfianacademy.com/) and making music from spreadsheets (http://csvsoundsystem.com).

Session relevance * To which session is your workshop most relevant? Please select from the list below

    The future of work : out and robo-sourcing, remote work revisited, "dividuals"
*   Algorithmic cultures: new forms of expression
    Managing innovation cycles : let live and let die
    Ethnofuturism: how traditions, religions and folk culture shape innovation
    The sharing economy backlash or how does openness scale?
    Bio Hacking: tinkering with life, bio fablabs and 3D food printing
    Counter culture to mainstream: shaping culture and commerce from the fringes
    Markets becoming conversations, finally: exploring the shift from the consumer- to the relationship economy
    Kick-it: start-up venture night
    None of the above, I choose my own topic


Workshop title:
Multisensory data gastronomification: Converting things into numbers and then back into things

Workshop description * Frame the topic, what will you produce, will you try to carry on the conversation beyond Lift14 etc...

  Data can be extracted from anything, and they can be converted to anything.
  "Anything" includes food. Thus, we can make food from data, and that's what
  we'll do during this workshop. In the process, you'll make food from data
  about yourself and learn to see data as a real thing rather than some
  nebulous buzzword.

  Participants will collect data about each other and then find creative ways
  of representing the data. Also, no computers allowed.
  
Interactivity * Tell us how you plan on stimulating exchange (workshop format, tools, participative techniques...)

  Aside a brief lecture-style introduction, the whole workshop will just be
  a collaborative data analysis. Below, I divide the workshop/analysis into
  two sections and explain how exchange is stimulated in each.

  The first section is deciding what data to collect and collecting them.
  Here, participants will brainstorm what data to collect about each other.
  Aside from encouraging participants to be creative with the sort of data
  they collect, this will force participants to introduce themselves to each
  other, possibly in somewhat atypical ways.

  The second section is computing statistics and

  The exact food that we use will depend on the time of day and on what's easy
  to acquire, but it'll probably be salads or cookies.

Support material Illustrate your work with support material such as pictures, videos etc... (External links only)

Workshop capacity * What's your optimal number of people

Never submit passwords through Google Forms.

