Name(s): Thomas Levine

Email address: thomas@thomaslevine.com

Phone number: 

Personal URL: http://thomaslevine.com

What is it? (pick all that apply)

- Artwork (It's a website.)

Title: OpenPrism

Description:

  I quite like the surveillance lifestyle, and my concern is simply that it does not go far enough;
  a privileged elite of governments and big companies keep my private information to itself rather
  than disseminating it the common people, who are the very creators of this information. Surveillance
  in its conventional form exploits the work of the masses to create massive databases that maintain
  the power of the powerful.
  
  OpenPrism proposes an alternative surveillance lifestyle that rejects these class hierarchies, where
  information flows freely in a distributed fashion rather than stagnating in the vaults of central
  authorities, where the people have the means to surveil each other rather than being slave to a secret
  surveillance authority.

  Open data initiatives weaken the class hierarchy of access to knowledge by releasing data that were
  once private. I suggest that this is a model that should be taken further. To demonstrate the power
  of this model, OpenPrism lets you search for datasets across more than 100 open data portals,
  encouraging the common person to explore and utilize the vast troves of open data.

URL of the work/documentation of the work (if applicable): http://openprism.thomaslevine.com

Technology/Space/Assistance/Budget required: Computer running any browser other than Firefox

What will your proposed contribution add to this event?

  Being in a privileged position of not being noticeably persecuted by any government, I am able to
  use my life as an experiment in extreme openness. I post information as openly as I conveniently
  can, and I am personally quite comforted by the knowledge that everyone is reading it. This allows
  people to recognize my accomplishments, build on my work, and take action if I suddenly got kidnapped. 

  I dream of a world where everyone can be as open as I am. It will take years of gradual
  information-opening to reach such a culture of openness, but this needs to get started somehow.
  OpenPrism will plant this possibility in the minds of attendees, opening them to another way
  of combating unchecked surveillance.

What do you hope to get out of this experience?

  I hope to impact people as I discuss in the previous answer or to identify faults in my dreams
  of widespread openness.
